.TH KOTLIN 1 "2026" "kotlinrs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kotlin \- compiled Kotlin runtime on the fusevm bytecode VM (no JVM)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kotlin
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
\fIFILE.kt\fR
[\fIargs\fR...]
.br
.B kotlin
.B \-e
\fISRC\fR
[\fB\-e\fR \fISRC\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kotlinrs
runs Kotlin programs by lexing and parsing to an AST, lowering to
.B fusevm
bytecode, and executing on a shared bytecode VM with a three-tier Cranelift
JIT \(em with no JVM and no bytecode interpreter of its own. Arithmetic,
comparison, control flow, locals, and calls lower to native fusevm ops so the
JIT can trace hot loops; a small runtime host supplies the Kotlin display form
of
.BR Boolean / Double
and truncating integer division.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-eval " " \fISRC\fR
Run a snippet instead of a file. Repeatable; multiple
.B \-e
snippets are joined with newlines. A snippet with no
.B fun main
is wrapped as a
.B main
body (script mode).
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-tokens
Print the lexer token stream and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-ast
Print the parsed AST and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-dump\-bytecode ", " \-\-disasm
Print the lowered fusevm chunk disassembly and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help and exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Errors are written to standard error in the terse form
.BR "kotlin: <reason>" .
An integer division by zero is reported as an uncaught
.B java.lang.ArithmeticException
and exits non-zero.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fusevm (1)
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/kotlinrs
