.TH KOTLINALL 1 "2026" "kotlinrs 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kotlinall \- full language and toolchain reference for the kotlinrs \fBkotlin\fR command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kotlin
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
\fIFILE.kt\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page is the consolidated reference for
.BR kotlinrs ,
the compiled Kotlin runtime hosted on the
.B fusevm
bytecode VM and Cranelift JIT (no JVM). It documents the recognized language
subset, the runtime coercions, and the full toolchain surface of the single
.B kotlin
binary. For the terse invocation summary see
.BR kotlin (1).
.SH "LANGUAGE SUBSET"
.TP
.B Declarations
.B fun
(functions; execution enters
.BR "fun main" "),"
.B val
(read-only binding),
.B var
(mutable binding). Coarse type annotations:
.BR Int ", " Long ", " Double ", " Float ", " Boolean ", " String ", " Unit .
.TP
.B Control flow
.B if
/
.B else
(statement or expression),
.B while
loops, and
.B for
loops over ranges:
.BR a..b " (inclusive), " "a until b" " (half-open), " "a downTo b" " (descending), optional " "step n" .
.TP
.B Expressions
integer / floating arithmetic
.RB ( + " " \- " " * " " / " " % ),
comparison and equality, short-circuiting
.BR && " / " || ,
unary
.BR \- " / " ! ,
and string templates with
.BR "$name" " / " "${expr}" .
.TP
.B Builtins
.BR println " and " print
write a single value to standard output.
.SH "RUNTIME COERCIONS"
Three Kotlin behaviours the language-agnostic ops cannot express are served by
the runtime host:
.BR Boolean / Double
display form
.RB ( true / false ", " 1.0 ),
and truncating integer
.BR / " and " %
(with a
.B java.lang.ArithmeticException
on a zero divisor). Everything else is native fusevm bytecode.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-eval " " \fISRC\fR
Run a snippet (repeatable, newline-joined; wrapped in
.B fun main
if it has none).
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-tokens
Print the lexer token stream and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-dump\-ast
Print the parsed AST and exit.
.TP
.BR \-\-dump\-bytecode ", " \-\-disasm
Print the lowered fusevm chunk disassembly and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-lsp
Language Server Protocol over stdio (diagnostics, completion, hover).
.TP
.B \-\-dap
Debug Adapter Protocol over stdio (breakpoints, stepping, locals).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version ", " \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the version / help and exit.
.SH "INLINE RUST FFI"
A
.B rust { ... }
block inside a function body compiles to a cached cdylib whose exported
.B extern "C"
functions are callable by name from Kotlin. The block is desugared at the
source level and dispatched through
.BR fusevm::ffi .
.SH "EDITOR TOOLING"
The LSP corpus (keywords, types, builtins) is the single source of truth for
.BR \-\-lsp
completion / hover and for the generated
.I docs/reference.html
page, so the language server and the published reference never drift.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kotlin (1),
.BR fusevm (1)
.SH HOMEPAGE
https://github.com/MenkeTechnologies/kotlinrs
